# MD 380 Files

## Overview

This folder contains Programming files for the Retevis and TYT DMR radios

  - DMR UHF RT3, MD-380
  - DMR VHF RT8
  - DMR U/VHF RT-82, MD-2017, MD-9600


Release: MDDATEFLD

#### NOTE: THESE FILES ARE PRACTICALLY UNUSABLE OUT OF THE BOX (BY DESIGN)
#### THE CONTENT IS AUTOGENERATED FOR ALL DMR AND FM REPEATERS IN AUSTRALIA
#### YOU WILL HAVE TO DELETE MANY ZONES (OF UNUSED AREAS) TO MAKE IT PRACTICAL TO SWITCH ZONES.



The files were prepared using the Tytera MD 380 V1.32 and the CPS utilities software with Data extracted from the WIA data set.

## Files
* Configuration
    - RT-3_VK2BV.rdt - most recent RT-3, MD 380 file, YOU MUST change your radio id.
    - RT-8_VK2BV.rdt - most recent RT-8 file, YOU MUST change your radio id.
    - RT-82_VK2BV.rdt - most recent RT-82, MD-2017 file, YOU MUST change your radio id.
    - MD-9600_VK2BV.rdt - most recent MD-9600 file, YOU MUST change your radio id.



* Build Files to create standard configuration

    - contacts.csv - output from the marc database
    - cont-n0gsg.csv - output from the marc database
    - rt82contacts.csv - output from the marc database
    - rxgroups.csv - output from the repeater configuration
    - rt3uchan.csv - output from the repeater configuration
    - rt3uscan.csv - output from the repeater configuration
    - rt3uzone.csv - output from the repeater configuration
    - rt8vchan.csv - output from the repeater configuration
    - rt8vscan.csv - output from the repeater configuration
    - rt8vzone.csv - output from the repeater configuration
    - rt82chan.csv - output from the repeater configuration
    - rt82scan.csv - output from the repeater configuration
    - rt82zone.csv - output from the repeater configuration

## Notes

Still early days here

###### Channel naming
Currently the TYT and Retevis style channels use a font and position for channels that only give you 9 (or 8. if greater than 9) characters visible then it scrolls, however, the scroll is slow to start.

FM Channels are consistent with other configs:
  - VK2RBV 7 (70cm), VK2ROT 2 (2m)

DMR channels are more "creative"

|visible|Full|TG|TS|Repeater|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|9 1CGVK2|9 1CGVK2|9|1|VK2RCG|
|3800 2CGV.|3800 2CGVK2|3800|2|VK2RCG|
|113 1CGVK.|113 1CGVK2|113|1|VK2RCG|

Where I can resolve the type of Network the repeater is connected to it generates more or less channels.

i.e DMR-plus/MARC Generates 9/1, 8/1, 3800/2, 380x/2, 9/2, 4000/2, 5000/2, 9990/2, 1/1, 5/1, 13/1, 113/1, 123/1, 133/1, 143/1, 505/2

  - 380x is generated based on the home state of the repeater.

BrandMeister generates a similar list.

##### Radio Buttons RT-3, RT-8, MD-380

| Button | Short | Long |
| ---:|:-----:|:-----:|
| Side1 | Scan | Rep/Talk |
| Side2 |  Monitor |  Manual Dial |

##### Radio Buttons RT-82

| Button | Short | Long |
| ---:|:-----:|:-----:|
| Top | Scan | One Touch 1 |
| Side1 | Switch Up-down | Rep/Talk |
| Side2 | Right | Power |
| Side3 | Left | Talkaround |
| P1 | Zone | Unassigned |
| P2 | Monitor | Unassigned |

##### Radio Buttons MD-9600

| Button | Short | Long |
| ---:|:-----:|:-----:|
| P1 | Zone | Monitor |
| P2 | Monitor | One Touch 1 |
| P3 | Scan | One Touch 2 |
| P4 | Rep/Talk | Unassigned |

NB: You can't change Monitor (or Power?) when scanning.

This is a fairly automated build so once you get the rdt file you should change a few things.
   * Your ID and similar fields in General Settings.

You probably want to move some other channels into the VK2RCGDMR zone (e.g. ROT,ROZ, RCG FM).

The tools I am using:-
  - Tyt MD-380 CPS
  - Retevis RT82 CPS
  - CPS Programmer V0-33 from DL5MCC
      - Build the codeplugs for UHF (RT3, MD-380) and VHF (RT-8)
      - Load the rx groups, scanlists headers and channels for RT82, Scanlists.
  - ContactManagerV240.exe from n0gsg
      - Use the RT82 Code plug then merge the UHF and VHF CP (Zones)
  - ~~G4EML tools~~
